File Access Modes:-

The permissions of a file are the first line of defense in the security of a Unix system. The basic building blocks of Unix permissions are the read, write, and execute permissions, which have been described below −
Read

Grants the capability to read, i.e., view the contents of the file.
Write

Grants the capability to modify, or remove the content of the file.
Execute

User with execute permissions can run a file as a program.
Directory Access Modes

 	No permission 	---
1 	Execute permission 	--x
2 	Write permission 	-w-
3 	Execute and write permission: 1 (execute) + 2 (write) = 3 	-wx
4 	Read permission 	r--
5 	Read and execute permission: 4 (read) + 1 (execute) = 5 	r-x
6 	Read and write permission: 4 (read) + 2 (write) = 6 	rw-
7 	All permissions: 4 (read) + 2 (write) + 1 (execute) = 7 	rwx






The Permission Indicators:-

While using ls -l command, it displays various information related to file permission as follows −

$ls -l /home/amrood
-rwxr-xr--  1 amrood   users 1024  Nov 2 00:10  myfile
drwxr-xr--- 1 amrood   users 1024  Nov 2 00:10  mydir

Here, the first column represents different access modes, i.e., the permission associated with a file or a directory.

The permissions are broken into groups of threes, and each position in the group denotes a specific permission, in this order: read (r), write (w), execute (x) −

    The first three characters (2-4) represent the permissions for the file's owner. For example, -rwxr-xr-- represents that the owner has read (r), write (w) and execute (x) permission.

    The second group of three characters (5-7) consists of the permissions for the group to which the file belongs. For example, -rwxr-xr-- represents that the group has read (r) and execute (x) permission, but no write permission.

    The last group of three characters (8-10) represents the permissions for everyone else. For example, -rwxr-xr-- represents that there is read (r) only permission.






Changing owner ship of file:-
commands are available to change the owner and the group of files −
-	chown :The chown command stands for "change owner" and is used to change the owner of a file.
Syntex :- chown user filelist
-	chgrp : The chgrp command stands for "change group" and is used to change the group of a file.
Syntex :- chgrp group filelist
-	

