Package Management:-
In few words, package management is a method of installing and maintaining (which includes updating and probably removing as well) software on the system.
In the early days of Linux, programs were only distributed as source code, along with the required man pages, the necessary configuration files, and more. Nowadays, most Linux distributors use by default pre-built programs or sets of programs called packages, which are presented to users ready for installation on that distribution. However, one of the wonders of Linux is still the possibility to obtain source code of a program to be studied, improved, and compiled.
If a certain package requires a certain resource such as a shared library, or another package, it is said to have a dependency. All modern package management systems provide some method of dependency resolution to ensure that when a package is installed, all of its dependencies are installed as well.


YUM:-
YUM is the primary package management tool for installing, updating, removing, and managing software packages in Red Hat Enterprise Linux. YUM performs dependency resolution when installing, updating, and removing software packages. YUM can manage packages from installed repositories in the system or from .rpm packages. The main configuration file for YUM is at /etc/yum.conf, and all the repos are at /etc/yum.repos.d.

You can learn more about adding repositories to your system from this article on how to add a YUM repo from Amy Marrich.
It's easy to manage packages in Linux with YUM. At the command line, enter:
yum -option command



Some commands in YUM :-
yum install--Installs the specified packages
remove--Removes the specified packages
search--Searches package metadata for keywords
info--Lists description
update--Updates each package to the latest version
repolist--Lists repositories
history--Displays what has happened in past transactions

YUM provides many options for package management. For detailed option information, look at man yum and yum –help. Also, here is a link to YUM documentation.
